Beta release notes for 0.114 (#14159)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2020-08-12-release-114.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "0.114: Beta release notes"
description: "Beta release notes"
date: 2020-08-05 00:00:00
date_formatted: "August 12, 2020"
author: Franck Nijhof
author_twitter: frenck
comments: true
categories: Release-Notes
og_image: /images/blog/2020-08-0.114/social.png
---

<!--<a href='/integrations/#version/0.113'><img src='/images/blog/2020-07-0.113/social.png' style='border: 0;box-shadow: none;'></a>-->

Beta release notes for 0.114.0

Please be sure to report issues on our GitHub issue tracker:

- Issues with core & integrations: <https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues>
- Issues with the frontend/UI: <https://github.com/home-assistant/frontend/issues>

Issues introduced in this beta, are generally picked up with priority.

## Introduction

Ooh boy, time flew this release cycle; it is time for 0.114 already!

Personally, I'm hardly even done implementing all automation features added
in the previous release 😅

> Ever since or Lovelace UI started as a beta, back in 2018, one of the most
> requested feature - arguably - is a dark mode. No wonder, as a dark mode is
> added to software everywhere nowadays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ever since our Lovelace UI started as a beta, back in 2018, one of the most
requested features - arguably - is a dark mode. No wonder, as a dark mode is
added to software everywhere nowadays.
```

This release adds dark mode! [@bramkragten] didn't stop there and added
color pickers for the main theme colors as well. I looked forward having it,

> a easy way to have a bit of theming, without the need for themes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an easy way of having a bit of theming, without the need for themes.
```

This is by far the most noticeable feature of this release, mainly because it
is immediately apparent after the upgrade.

Meanwhile, the beta Open Z-Wave integration picks up speed in terms of
contributions, reports, fixes and improvements. I've been using it already,

> and I love it. My Z-Wave network has never been better and stable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and I love it. My Z-Wave network has never been better and more stable.
```

> If you haven't tried it yet, I would highly recommend doing so.

Reviewer 2: Might be a good place to mention there is already a community guide on how to test it out and switch back if you don't like it.

https://community.home-assistant.io/t/how-to-test-the-ozw-beta-without-fully-switching-over/211282

Author: Done! Thanks for the suggestion.

Besides the listing below, 0.114 may feel a bit "empty", however, it isn't.
It is packed with little things and fixes. The "All changes" section is

> definitely worth a look this release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
definitely worth a look at this release.
```

Author: That is actually incorrect, `at` refers to `this release` in this suggestion.

Reviewer 3: Oops, my bad.
I assumed it was "... section is definitely worth to look at this release." referred to `section`.

Enjoy the release.

../Frenck

## Dark mode and theme color pickers

We now have official support for dark mode 🎉

We detect if your device is in dark mode; if that is the case, our default theme
will go dark. You can override the automatic switching between dark and light
theme in your profile.

> Furthermore you can now also select the primary and accent color for the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Furthermore, you can now also select the primary and accent color for the
```

default theme. We calculate all other colors to make sure everything matches
and is readable.

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blog/2020-08-0.114/dark-mode.png' alt='Screenshot of the new dark mode theme settings'></a>
Screenshot of the new dark mode and theme settings.
</p>

So if you upgrade to Home Assistant 0.114, you are using the default theme
and your device is set to a dark mode; Please be aware that after upgrading,
you will get a dark theme by default in that case.

Also, when picking colors, make sure you choose a primary color that is
readable on both a light and dark background. For now, this is just a local

> setting and has to be applied on every device.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
setting and has to be applied to every device.
```

`mode: 'dark'`; this allows to set a theme that will be used when your device
is in dark mode.

Lastly, when using the `set_theme` service, the settings are now persistent
across restarts. So if you have an automation that calls `set_theme` on startup,
you don't need it anymore 😉

## Automation & Scripts updates

In [Home Assistant 0.113](/blog/2020/07/22/release-113/) we added tons of new
features to automations and scripts. This release contains some fixes for issues
discovered and reported, but also adds some smaller new features to extend it
even more.

First of all, the repeat and choose actions are now available when creating
automations or scripts via the UI.

<p class='img'>
<img src='/images/blog/2020-08-0.114/repeat-ui.png' alt='Screenshot of the new automation features available in the UI'></a>
Screenshot of the new automation features available in the UI.
</p>

Sub-second precision has been extended and is now available in all
time-related notations. For example, you can now use `2.5` seconds/hours/minutes
or even use it in full time notations: `23:59:59.999`.

The `automation.turn_off` service now accepts a `stop_actions` data parameter.

> By default, when turning off an automation, any currently running automation,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, when turning off an automation, any currently running automation
```

Experiencing issues introduced by this release? Please report them in our [issue tracker](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues). Make sure to fill in all fields of the issue template.

<!--more-->

## Breaking Changes

Below is a listing of the breaking change for this release, per subject or
integration. Click on one of those to read more about the breaking change
for that specific item.

<details>
  <summary><b>Recorder</b></summary>
  <p>

The default sqlite database (home-assistant_v2.db) is now validated on startup
and if corruption is detected, the database is renamed to
`home-assistant_v2.db.corrupt.{ISOTIME}` and startup proceeds with a fresh
database.

([@bdraco] - [#37949]) ([recorder docs])

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Google Assistant</b></summary>
  <p>

A sync will be required for source selection to work after this update. The
keyword to select source will also have changed from "Set mode on TV to.."
to "Set input on TV to.."

([@elupus] - [#35753]) ([google_assistant docs])

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Blink</b></summary>
  <p>

> Due to new 2FA endpoint, YAML configuration is no longer supported.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Due to the new 2FA endpoint, the YAML configuration is no longer supported.
```

In addition, due to some API changes, if you are upgrading from a previous

> version, you will need navigate to the integration page at startup and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
version, you will need to navigate to the integration page at startup and
```

re-configure Blink.

Your username and password will be imported, but you need to submit a 2FA token
(emailed to you by Blink) in order to continue setting up the integration.

([@fronzbot] - [#38027]) ([blink docs])

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Pi-hole</b></summary>
  <p>

A switch has been added to the Pi-hole integration. Because of the switch being
added, the `pi_hole.enable` service is removed.

The `pi_hole.disable` service remains in order to support disabling the service
for a given amount of time, but now it relies on the switch entity id instead
of the name set by the user, so the `name` field is removed.

With this change, a switch entity `switch.pi_hole` will be added if you

> set up the integration with API key and default name (Pi-hole).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
set up the integration with an API key and default name (Pi-hole).
```

Now, you can use `switch.turn_on` and `switch.turn_off` to enable and disable
the Pi-hole service permanently. To disable the service for a given time,
use `pi_hole.disable` with `entity_id: switch.pi_hole` and `duration: 00:00:15`.
To target all Pi-hole services, use `entity_id: all`.

([@shenxn] - [#35605]) ([pi_hole docs])

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Volumio</b></summary>
  <p>

The Volumio integration is now configured through the UI. If you previously had
it in configuration.yaml, please remove it and configure through the
Integrations panel.

([@OnFreund] - [#38252]) ([discovery docs]) ([volumio docs])

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Honeywell Total Connect Comfort (evohome)</b></summary>
  <p>

The `hvac_action()` property has been removed from Evohome zones as this data

> was clearly inaccurate - the algorithm used to provide this data was not

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
was inaccurate - the algorithm used to provide this data was not
```

you will continue to have the `hvac_mode()` property, which will indicate if the
heating is enabled, or not (`HVAC_MODE_*`).

This will be most obvious by the absence of this information in the UI.

There is no intervention required for this breaking change.

([@zxdavb] - [#38244]) ([evohome docs])

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Flume</b></summary>
  <p>

The unique id is being updated for existing sensors. You will need to clean up
the stale entity from the entity registry via the GUI.

([@ChrisMandich] - [#38138]) ([flume docs])

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Météo-France</b></summary>
  <p>

The `meteo_france` integration moved from a web scraping architecture to a
API-based architecture. With this major refactor the following change could
break:

- The `thunder chance` entity is no longer available (no longer in the API results).
- The `next rain` entity state is now a datetime instead of a delay.
- `next rain` attributes have been simplified.
- `weather_alert:` only one entity created by department. Was by city in the
  previous version and could create duplicates.
- `weather alert` attributes have been simplified.

> - `weather` platform is showing the current day forecast in first position of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `weather` platform is showing the current day forecast in the first position of
```

  daily forecast (instead of tomorrow forecast).

([@oncleben31] - [#37737]) ([meteo_france docs])

  </p>
</details>
<details>
  <summary><b>Bond</b></summary>
  <p>

When you have multiple Bond hubs, each with its own set of devices, those
devices have IDs that the Bond integration uses to generate unique entity IDs
in Home Assistant. Unfortunately, those IDs are only unique within the hub.
So it is possible that unique IDs generated for entities from different hubs
will not be unique and collide.

This has been fixed by prefixing device ID with a hub ID and the resulting ID
is now truly unique. After restarting you will see each bond entity twice.

> One which is live with the a unique ID. The second which is disabled with old

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One which is live with the new unique ID. The second which is disabled with old
```

> One which is live with the a unique ID. The second which is disabled with old

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One which is live with the a unique ID. The second which is disabled with the old
```

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Slack</b></summary>
  <p>

The Slack attachments framework was deprecated in 0.108.0 and is now officially
removed. The blocks framework should be used instead.

([@bachya] - [#38139]) ([slack docs])

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>IQVIA</b></summary>
  <p>

Per ADR-0010, IQVIA can no longer be configured via YAML and must be configured
from the UI. Existing IQVIA users have already had their integrations imported
and only need to remove IQVIA-related items from `configuration.yaml`.

([@bachya] - [#38141]) ([iqvia docs])

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Shell Command</b></summary>
  <p>

Processes spawned from the `shell_command` integration (the command executes)
now timeout after 60 seconds instead of running forever.

([@bdraco] - [#38491]) ([shell_command docs])

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Command Line</b></summary>
  <p>

The `command_line` cover, notify and switch platforms, now timeout after 15
seconds (by default) instead of blocking forever.

([@bdraco] - [#38497]) ([command_line docs])

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Time pattern listeners</b></summary>
  <p>

> If time abruptly moves forward or backwards, time pattern listeners will only

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If time abruptly moves forward or backward, time pattern listeners will only
```
